README.md, before:

# IntelliPDF

IntelliPDF is a unified, production-ready Python toolkit that provides PDF
splitting, merging, and compression utilities on top of
[`pypdf`](https://pypi.org/project/pypdf/). The package bundles the
functionality that previously lived in separate projects into a single
well-typed, well-tested library.

## Features

- Split PDFs into page ranges or explicit page selections while preserving
  metadata.
- Extract specific pages into a standalone PDF document.
- Merge multiple PDFs, optionally optimising the result with `qpdf` when
  available.
- Compress PDFs using configurable optimisation backends and surface detailed
  compression metrics.
- Validate documents and query document information before operating on them.

## Installation

```bash
pip install intellipdf
```

## Usage

```python
from pathlib import Path

from intellipdf import (
    compress_document,
    extract_document_pages,
    merge_documents,
    split_document,
)

source = Path("document.pdf")
output_dir = Path("output")

# Split into ranges: pages 1-3 and 4-6.
parts = split_document(source, output_dir, mode="range", ranges="1-3,4-6")

# Extract individual pages to a single file.
extract_document_pages(source, [1, 4, 8], Path("highlights.pdf"))

# Merge multiple PDFs into one.
merge_documents([Path("a.pdf"), Path("b.pdf")], Path("combined.pdf"))

# Compress a document and inspect the resulting metrics.
result = compress_document(source, Path("compressed.pdf"))
print(result.compressed_size, result.backend)
```

Set the environment variable `INTELLIPDF_SPLIT_OPTIMIZE=1` (or the more general
`INTELLIPDF_OPTIMIZE=1`) to enable optional `qpdf`-based optimisation after
splitting.

## Development

```bash
pip install -e .[dev]
pytest
```

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

Commit message:

refactor: restructure repository into monorepo layout

README.md, after:

# IntelliPDF

IntelliPDF is now organised as a small monorepo that bundles everything
required to build PDF-centric workflows:

- **`packages/intellipdf`** – the core Python toolkit that provides PDF
  splitting, merging, and compression utilities on top of
  [`pypdf`](https://pypi.org/project/pypdf/).
- **`apps/backend`** – a FastAPI service that exposes the library’s
  functionality over HTTP for automation or browser clients.
- **`apps/frontend`** – a Next.js dashboard that talks to the backend for a
  user-friendly experience.

The shared library remains a production-ready, well-typed, and well-tested
foundation for the services that sit on top of it.

## Features

- Split PDFs into page ranges or explicit page selections while preserving
  metadata.
- Extract specific pages into a standalone PDF document.
- Merge multiple PDFs, optionally optimising the result with `qpdf` when
  available.
- Compress PDFs using configurable optimisation backends and surface detailed
  compression metrics.
- Validate documents and query document information before operating on them.

## Installation

```bash
pip install intellipdf
```

## Usage

```python
from pathlib import Path

from intellipdf import (
    compress_document,
    extract_document_pages,
    merge_documents,
    split_document,
)

source = Path("document.pdf")
output_dir = Path("output")

# Split into ranges: pages 1-3 and 4-6.
parts = split_document(source, output_dir, mode="range", ranges="1-3,4-6")

# Extract individual pages to a single file.
extract_document_pages(source, [1, 4, 8], Path("highlights.pdf"))

# Merge multiple PDFs into one.
merge_documents([Path("a.pdf"), Path("b.pdf")], Path("combined.pdf"))

# Compress a document and inspect the resulting metrics.
result = compress_document(source, Path("compressed.pdf"))
print(result.compressed_size, result.backend)
```

Set the environment variable `INTELLIPDF_SPLIT_OPTIMIZE=1` (or the more general
`INTELLIPDF_OPTIMIZE=1`) to enable optional `qpdf`-based optimisation after
splitting.

## Development

| Area      | How to get started |
|-----------|--------------------|
| Library   | `pip install -e packages/intellipdf[dev]` then `pytest` |
| Backend   | Follow the setup steps in `apps/backend/README.md` and run `uvicorn app.main:app --reload` |
| Frontend  | Follow `apps/frontend/README.md` and run `npm run dev` |

The repository root still includes a `pyproject.toml` so the library can be
installed with `pip install .` if required.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See [LICENSE](LICENSE).
